# student_participation

The idea of the project is to check for student's participation in a discussion forum and get a detailed graph of why and where the students are struggling the most, depending on the category of question.
Taking Contemporary environment into Consideration the following database is designed for tracking the student contribution in Classroom Activities. Database named as Student_Participation, a set of participating students name data is submitted to Student_Participation, will extract the each student individually which has a unique Student Name (Last and First Name), NetId (email which is not shown to students but will be there in professor’s page and created in database), score( student’s standing in participation), percentage of contribution, Number of questions posted. To avoid the complexity of the queries created in the database we enlarge the indexes of the student table. We will create a GUI Interface initially then we will start implementing the databases using SQL entities,queries and relational databases. The GUI is basically a forum for the students to interact with each other and ask questions. We think that this would be really helpful for online learning as it is hard to keep track of the hundreds of questions that the students are asking and put a rock on where they are having the most trouble in the course.

List of Strong Entities :
1. Student data
2. Percentage contribution
3. Number of Questions posted 4. NumberofAnsweredposts
List of weak Entities:
● Student netid
● Anonymous names generation (optional ) ● Score
● Time spent by student
We implement the database using java and SQL, additionally including GUI Interface for Application development. All entities are dependent except student data entities.
1. Insert/delete/update/read a student data, we generate student data and the student name is generated by the system automatically using MySQL.(not null and autoincrement)
2. Insert/delete/update/read percentage is generated by the system automatically using relational database in MySQL( not null and autoincrement, unique)
3. Insert/delete/update/read number of questions posted by students will be generated by using MySQL ( using GROUP BY).
4. We will implement the following functions using GUI interfaces and SQL.
Trivial Queries :
1. List of all Student names
2. List of all students contribution percentage 3. List of all students questions posted
4. List of all students answered posts
Non-trivial Queries:
1. List of all students by particular student last name is generated
2. List of all students by particular student contribution percentage(by last
name)
3. Count the number of questions posted by a particular student and group
by student’s last name
4. Count the number of answers posted by a particular student and group
by the student's last name.(Join, on, count,From)
5. Amount of time spent by a particular student.
